# Book Library App

## Before start

This application rely on a `.env` file to run. You can do so by renaming the `.env.example` file to `.env`.

## How to run

First, install required packages

```bash
npm install
```

Run the development server:

```bash
npm start
```

To build the application for production usage

```bash
npm run build
```

To run all tests for the project

```bash
npm run test
```

## HTML semantic

This App is structured with semantic HTML elements to improve accessibility and SEO.

## Use Tailwind CSS

### Pros

1. Faster development cycles
2. Easy to reuse existing classes
3. Less custom CSS
4. Easy to create responsive designs
5. Unused CSS can be strip out with PurgeCSS resulting in smaller bundle sizes

### Cons

1. Steep learning curve
2. Long CSS class name, making it less readable

## Directory & file layout

```
book-library/
├── public/                    # Static files
│   ├── favicon.ico            # Favicon
│   └── images/                # Images assets
├── app/                       # Nextjs 13 feature. Supports async React component
│   ├── component/             # UI components
│   │   ├── Navbar.ts
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── form/
│   │   ├── form.tsx           # The form page. Nextjs 13 app base routing
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── api/                   # Rest API routes
│   │   └── book/
│   ├── data/                  # Client side data
│   ├── page.tsx               # Index page of the app
│   ├── global.css             # Global CSS file
│   ├── layout.tsx             # Html template
│   └── ...
└── ...                        # Config files
```

## Book metadata

All book metadata including title, author, description and cover image are generated by ChatGPT.

## Data fetching

This application leverages the fetchData function for early data retrieval, initiating the fetch process prior to the start of rendering. On the client side, this function is utilised within an async React component. This async component in React is capable of pausing the rendering of UI components, allowing it to await the completion of the data fetching process. This capability represents a new feature introduced in Next.js 13.

Within it's parent component, the React Suspense is used to prevent the async component from blocking the UI's responsiveness. Instead, it displays a fallback loading component during data fetching. This strategy significantly enhances the UI's loading speed, ensuring a smoother and more efficient user experience and improves the First Contentful Paint (FCP) as well as the Time to Interactive (TTI) metric.

# Database

Use SQLite as a in memory SQL db to serve the backend API. The downside of this solution is the data get lost when the server stops running.

An alternative solution is using a stand alone SQL DB like Postgres.

To improve the read performance, we can replicate the db and use a load balancer to distributes the traffic evenly. Adding a cache layer (such as Redis) to cache the popular data can further optimise the read performance.

To improve the write performance, we can add a message queue like Kafka to avoid loading the DB.

# React Query library

This application uses react-query for client side data fetching.

### Pros

- Automated Caching and Background Updates
- Reduction in Boilerplate Code
- Built-In Loading and Error States

### Cons

- Cause unnecessary re-render in some scenarios which required memoisation and deep compare to improve performance.

## Resilience pattern

### HTTP Caching

Nextjs supports HTTP caching by default, data requests that use fetch are cached. It can be configured by modifying the HTTP header when sending the request.

### Rate limit

This application is implementing rate limit function to protect the API. While this approach works on a small application, it can consume a large amount of CUP when the number of incoming requests are high.

A better solution is using rate limit service provided by the cloud platform. For example, the AWS API Gateway supports throttling limit.

### Client side performance optimisation

Memories the Card component inside the Gallery to avoid re-rendering all cards when clicking on the button of a card.

Implement deep compare on the Gallery component to avoid re-render causing by the react-query mutation function

### Nextjs supports/Webpack features

- Tree shaking: remove unused code in the application and it's external library.
- Minimize bundle size: it removes unnecessary white spaces, new lines, unreachable code, etc from the code to reduce the size of the files
- Compress bundle file: use GZip to compress the bundle files in the web server before sending to the client
- SSR: rendering React components on the server. It sends a fully rendered page to the client, so the user sees a complete page immediately.
- React Streaming: components can be sent to the client as soon as they are ready, instead of waiting for the entire page to be rendered.
- Client-side caching: The build-in React-Query cache helps memorising data that is fetched once. This means rendering components and transition between pages does not need to fetch the data again until the local cache is expired. It also help when optimistically update the local cache after mutating the server data. For example, after successfully adding a new book, the local cache is updated optimistically. The new book is showing on the page without needing to send another API request to fetch all books.

## Future Improvement

1. Since all the component is built in a highly reusable fashion, having storybook installed in the project can be a good idea to show case the components easily.
2. Implement a user login feature to secure the admin page. This feature is not implemented due to time constrain.
3. Use a hosted service provider like Sentry or Datadog for error logging and monitoring
